# Line-Profile FunctionsOne of the simple ways to quantify changes in a diffraction pattern is utilizing line-profile analysis, which involves fitting diffraction peaks with various line-profile functions. By considering the intensity, Y(i), of the ith point (where i ranges from 1 to n, n is the total number of measured points) of the diffraction profile, Eq. 1 can be used to model an observed diffraction profile.$$
\begin{equation}Y(i)=b(i)+\sum_{k=1}^{m}I_k[y_k(x_k)]\end{equation}
$$In Eq. 1, b(i) represents the background, and Ik is the intensity of kth Bragg reflection, and is dependent on the profile function used to model the pattern yk whose input is xk=2θi-2θk. The use of a Bragg intensity(Ik) as a multiplier in Eq. 1 allows the use of analyzing diffraction profiles using normalized functions that are independent of peak intensity. This means that the definite integral of the line-profile function yk(xk) integrates to unity, i.e. . There are four well-known line-profile functions used in the field of diffraction: Gaussian, Lorentzian, Pearson-VII, and pseudo-Voigt which are all centrosymmetric. 
Gauss:2Lorentz:3Pseudo-Voigt:4Pearson-VII:5- H is the full widths at half maximum (FWHM)- , Bragg angle of the ith point in the diffraction pattern with its origin at the position of kth peak divided by the peak’s FWHM- 2θi and 2θk are the Bragg angle of the ith point and the calculated (ideal) Bragg angle of the kth Bragg reflection- CG=4ln2, CL=2, and Cp=4(21/β-1)- η is the pseudo-Voigt function mixing parameter, where η=1 represents a Gauss function and η=0 a Lorentz function- Γ is the gamma function- β exponent that describes the tails of the function, where β=1 is a Lorentz function and with increasing β the function resembles a Gauss functionEach function has its strength and weaknesses in terms of its intrinsic profile. The Gauss function is a symmetrical function and exhibits a Gaussian distribution of the diffraction intensity. The Lorentz function has more pronounced tails compared to the Gauss function. The pseudo-Voigt is a linear combination of the Gauss and Lorentz function is the most widely used line-profile function used to fit diffraction data. The Pearson-VII function is similar to Lorentz distribution, but its profile is altered by the parameter β. Depending on the value of β the profile can be more Lorentzian when closer to 1 and Gaussian when approaching a value of 10. 	Peak asymmetry can be encountered in diffraction that is not related to instrumental contribution and is a signal from the sample. In this case, an asymmetric function is needed to fit the diffraction profile. One option, is a modification of the Pearson-VII function to allow both sides of the function to have different integrated intensities called the asymmetric Pearson-VII shown in Eq. 6: 6where NL and NR are the integrated intensities of the left and right hand side of the line-profile. The following equality must hold true in the case of x=x07The total integrated intensity of the distribution (Ihkl) is given as8References:1.	J. E. Daniels, J. L. Jones & T. R. Finlayson: Characterization of domain structures from diffraction profiles in tetragonal ferroelastic ceramics. J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 39, 5294 (2006).2.	V. K. Pecharsky & P. Zavalij: Fundamentals of Powder Diffraction and Structural Characterization of Materials. (Springer US, 2009). doi:10.1007/978-0-387-09579-0